the institute is releasing the list of
vehicles that earn our highest safety
awards for 2014 Top Safety Pick and top
safety pick+ among the standouts for
2014 as honda along with its accurate
division honda has six vehicles earning
a top safety pick+ award and another two
that earned the basic Top Safety Pick
award other standouts include smaller
companies like Volvo Subaru and Mazda
each of those companies had three
vehicles with top safety pick+ Awards
the Institute introduced the Top Safety
Pick award back in 2006 and since then
we've gradually made the criteria to win
harder in 2007 we added a requirement
for good protection in rear crashes and
also required that the vehicle offer
electronic stability control later we
added additional requirements for good
protection and rollover crashes and good
or acceptable protection in front small
overlap crashes to earn the basic Top
Safety Pick award vehicles have to have
top ratings in all five crash tests
including a good or acceptable rating in
our new front small overlap crash test
to earn the top rating top safety pick+
vehicles also have to offer an effective
front and crash prevention system either
for collision warning or auto break this
is how we test front crash prevention
systems we fit the vehicle with
different instruments so that we can
measure the position and speed of the
vehicle relative to a stationary target
which represents another vehicles
stopped in traffic now we're driving at
the stationary target and when we get
close enough the vehicle will sense an
imminent collision and sound a forward
collision warning and if I don't take
any action than the vehicle will try to
stop itself and it did by changing the
Top Safety Pick award many vehicles that
were on the list last year fall off for
2014 if you're driving one of those
vehicles it doesn't mean that your
vehicle is suddenly less safe your
vehicle still offers a high level of
crash protection however the institute
is raising the bar the new list shows
people those vehicles with
state-of-the-art safety for 2014